

1. Some people think that young people should go to university to further their education while others think they should be encouraged to work as car mechanics or builders etc.to serve society. Discuss both views and give your own opinion.

2. Some people believe that to give opportunities to the new generation companies should encourage high level employees who are older than 55 to retire. Do you agree or disagree?

3.Nowadays celebrities earn more money than politicians. What are the reasons for this? Is it a positive or negative development?

4. Many people believe that countries should produce food for the whole population and import as little food as possible. To what extent do you agree or disagree?

5. Some people think that it is necessary to travel abroad to learn about other countries, but others think that it is not necessary to travel abroad because all the information can be seen on TV and the internet. Discuss both views and give your own opinion.

6. Why are some people who leave school early more successful compared with those who complete their studies. Provide reasons why they are more successful and what are the requirements for success?

7. Countries with long average working hours are economically more successful than those countries which do not work long hours. To what extent do you agree or disagree?

8. Many students around the world don’t choose science subjects at university. Give the reasons for this and describe the impact on the community?

9. It is better for young people to get advice from old people than young ones. Do you agree or disagree?

10. Some people think that music plays an important role in society. Others think it is simply a form of entertainment. Discuss both sides and give your opinion.

11. Some people think that job satisfaction is more important than job security. Others think that people cannot expect to enjoy a job and that having a permanent job is more important. Discuss both views and give your opinion.

12.Some people say that technologies such as mobile phones are disrupting social interaction. Do you agree or disagree?

13. Some people think history has little or nothing to offer, while others say the study of the past helps us understand the present. Write on both views and give your opinion, citing examples from your experience

14. Some people think that zoos are cruel and all the zoos should be closed. However, others think that zoos are useful to protect rare animals. Discuss both views and give your own opinion.

15. Some people think that the best way to stay fit is to join a gym/health club while others think doing everyday activities such as walking and climbing stairs is sufficient. Discuss both views and give your opinion.

16. Nowadays online shopping is extremely popular. Discuss the impact of it on the environment and on people who lost their jobs because of it.

17. Nowadays celebrities earn more money than politicians. What are the reasons for this? Is it a positive or negative development?

18. Many people think that every individual is responsible for their happiness, but some people believe there are other external factors that influence us. Discuss both views and give your opinion.

19. It is too expensive to look after and repair old buildings. This money should be spent on building modern buildings instead. To what extent do you agree or disagree with this opinion?

20. Scientific research should be the responsibility of governments rather than commercial organizations. Do you agree or disagree with this statement?

21. Some people believe that women should be treated as equal to men when applying for a job with police or the military. Others think women are less suitable for this kind of job. Discuss both views and give your opinion.

22. Some people prefer to work in the same type of job throughout their lifetime while others like to change the type of job they do. Discuss both views and give your opinion.

23. Some people think that it is fine for professional sportsmen and sportswomen to misbehave on or off the field, as long as they are playing well. Do you agree or disagree with this statement?

24. People are becoming too dependent on the Internet and phone. Is it a positive or negative development?

25. Some people suggest that it is better for children to be brought up by the whole family including uncles, aunts and grandparents, rather than just the parents. Do you agree or disagree with this statement? Give your opinion and examples.

26. Some people think that the government should increase tax on unhealthy food to encourage people to start eating healthy. Do you agree or disagree?

27. Nowadays, people are spending more time away from their homes because they spend longer in their workplace. Discuss the advantages and disadvantages.

28.Nowadays a few people take their family with them abroad whenever they go on a business trip. What are the advantages and disadvantages for them and for their family?

29. Many parents complain about violence promoted to their children through video games, TV programs and other media. Why is it happening? What can be the solution for it?

30. Adults do less exercise nowadays. Some think that people can be encouraged to live healthy lives through sporting events such as the Olympics or the World Cup. Others think that there are better ways to encourage adults for exercise. Discuss both views and state your opinion.

31. Modern cultures around the world have become similar when compared to the past. What are the reasons? Is it a positive or negative development?

32. People are using a lot of online language translation apps. Are there more advantages than disadvantages to such services.

33.Some people believe that to be successful at a sport you need a natural ability and others think that hard work and practice can make you successful. Discuss both views and give your opinion?

34. Demand for food is increasing worldwide. What is the cause of this? What measures can the international community take to meet this demand?

35. Many companies sponsor sports as a way of advertising themselves. Some people think that this is a good thing, while others think that it has disadvantages. Discuss both views and give your own opinion.

36. Some people believe that to be successful at a sport you need natural ability and others think that hard work and practice can make you successful. Discuss both views and give your opinion?

37. Nowadays, adults do little exercise. Some people believe that the best way to address this issue is by covering great sports events such as the Olympics  n television. Others think that it is more beneficial to take other measures. What is your opinion?

38. These days some people spend a lot of money on tickets to go to sporting or cultural events. Do you think this is a positive or negative development?

39. Some people believe that technology has made man more social and others think that it has made him less social. Discuss both views and give your opinion?

40. Experts say older people were happier and healthier in the past because they did more exercise and spent more time with family and friends, whereas many now suffer from loneliness and health problems. What are the causes of this and what are some solutions?

41. School and university students learn lessons far better from their teachers than from other sources, such as the Internet and television. To what extent do you agree or disagree?

42. Some people believe that entertainers are more important than scientists. Do you agree or disagree? Support with reasons and examples from your own experience.

43. Nowadays we can see definite signs of surplus production in almost every industry sector, and this is leading to environmental damage. What are some possible solutions to this situation?

44. Some people prefer to live in hot climates, whereas others love the lifestyle in countries with cold climate. Discuss both the view and give your opinion.

45. Modern cultures around the world have become similar as compared to the past. What are the main reasons for it? Is it a positive or negative development?

46. Some people believe that adults get motivated to exercise and play sports because of the major sports events on TV such as the Olympic Games and the Football World Cup. Others say that there are many ways apart from TV to encourage them to exercise. Discuss both views and give your own opinion.

47. Some people believe that to be a successful sportsperson, one needs to have a natural ability. Others think that hard work and practice are more important. Discuss both views and give your opinion.

48. Nowadays many students live with their families while others go to another city to study at a university. Discuss advantages and disadvantages of both scenarios. Include relevant examples in your answer.

49. It is becoming increasingly expensive for museums to be open to the public. What would be the best solution to keep them open, in your opinion?

50. Some people believe that women should play an equal role as men in a country’s police or military force, such as the army, while others think women are not suitable for these kinds of jobs. Discuss both views and give your opinion.